<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/2002/06/xhtml2/ http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml2.xsd" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<link href="Styles/Style00.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<link href="Styles/Style01.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />

<style type="text/css">body{margin:1em;background-color:transparent!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{text-indent:0pt!important;}#sbo-rt-content .bq{margin-right:1em!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{word-wrap:break-word!important;word-break:break-word!important;}#sbo-rt-content table,#sbo-rt-content pre{overflow-x:unset!important;overflow:unset!important;overflow-y:unset!important;white-space:pre-wrap!important;}</style></head>
<body><div id="sbo-rt-content"><section>&#13;
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_iv" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="iv"/>&#13;
<p id="f01-para-0008">Copyright © 2022 by John Wiley &amp; Sons, Inc. All rights reserved.</p>&#13;
<p id="f01-para-0009">Published by John Wiley &amp; Sons, Inc., Hoboken, New Jersey.</p>&#13;
<p id="f01-para-0010">Published simultaneously in Canada.</p>&#13;
<p id="f01-para-0011">978-1-119-85498-2<br/>978-1-119-85500-2 (ebk.)<br/>978-1-119-85499-9 (ebk.)</p>&#13;
<p id="f01-para-0014">No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, scanning, or otherwise, except as permitted under Section 107 or 108 of the 1976 United States Copyright Act, without either the prior written permission of the Publisher, or authorization through payment of the appropriate per-copy fee to the Copyright Clearance Center, Inc., 222 Rosewood Drive, Danvers, MA 01923, (978) 750-8400, fax (978) 750-4470, or on the web at <code><a href="http://www.copyright.com">www.copyright.com</a></code>. Requests to the Publisher for permission should be addressed to the Permissions Department, John Wiley &amp; Sons, Inc., 111 River Street, Hoboken, NJ 07030, (201) 748-6011, fax (201) 748-6008, or online at <code><a href="http://www.wiley.com/go/permission">http://www.wiley.com/go/permission</a></code>.</p>&#13;
<p id="f01-para-0015"><b>Limit of Liability/Disclaimer of Warranty</b>: The publisher and the author make no representations or warranties with respect to the accuracy or completeness of the contents of this work and specifically disclaim all warranties, including without limitation warranties of fitness for a particular purpose. No warranty may be created or extended by sales or promotional materials. The advice and strategies contained herein may not be suitable for every situation. This work is sold with the understanding that the publisher is not engaged in rendering legal, accounting, or other professional services. If professional assistance is required, the services of a competent professional person should be sought. Neither the publisher nor the author shall be liable for damages arising herefrom. The fact that an organization or Website is referred to in this work as a citation and/or a potential source of further information does not mean that the author or the publisher endorses the information the organization or Website may provide or recommendations it may make. Further, readers should be aware the Internet Websites listed in this work may have changed or disappeared between when this work was written and when it is read.</p>&#13;
<p id="f01-para-0016">For general information on our other products and services or for technical support, please contact our Customer Care Department within the United States at (800) 762-2974, outside the United States at (317) 572-3993 or fax (317) 572-4002.</p>&#13;
<p id="f01-para-0017">Wiley also publishes its books in a variety of electronic formats. Some content that appears in print may not be available in electronic formats. For more information about Wiley products, visit our web site at <code><a href="http://www.wiley.com">www.wiley.com</a></code>.</p>&#13;
<p id="f01-para-0018"><b>Library of Congress Control Number:</b> 2021948848</p>&#13;
<p id="f01-para-0019"><b>Trademarks:</b> WILEY, the Wiley logo, Sybex and the Sybex logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of John Wiley &amp; Sons, Inc. and/or its affiliates, in the United States and other countries, and may not be used without written permission. (ISC)<sup>2</sup> and SSCP are trademarks or registered trademarks of International Information Systems Security Certification Consortium, Inc. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. John Wiley &amp; Sons, Inc. is not associated with any product or vendor mentioned in this book.</p>&#13;
<p id="f01-para-0020">Cover image: © Jeremy Woodhouse/Getty Images<br/>Cover design: Wiley</p>&#13;
</section>&#13;
</div></body>
</html>