<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/2002/06/xhtml2/ http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml2.xsd" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<link href="Styles/Style00.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<link href="Styles/Style01.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />

<style type="text/css">body{margin:1em;background-color:transparent!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{text-indent:0pt!important;}#sbo-rt-content .bq{margin-right:1em!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{word-wrap:break-word!important;word-break:break-word!important;}#sbo-rt-content table,#sbo-rt-content pre{overflow-x:unset!important;overflow:unset!important;overflow-y:unset!important;white-space:pre-wrap!important;}</style></head>
<body><div id="sbo-rt-content"><section epub:type="part" role="doc-part" aria-labelledby="p01_1">&#13;
<header>&#13;
<h1 id="p01_1"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_1" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="1"/><span id="part"/><span class="partNumber">PART I</span><br/><span class="partTitle">Getting Started as an SSCP</span></h1>&#13;
</header>&#13;
<section aria-label="chapter opening"><span id="p01-sec-0001"/>&#13;
<p id="p01-para-0001"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="Page_2" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="2"/>Part 1 of this book starts you on your journey toward becoming a Systems Security Certified Practitioner (SSCP).</p>&#13;
<p id="p01-para-0002"><a href="c01.xhtml">Chapter 1</a> provides a solid foundation for your studies of information security within the context of the world’s many different business environments and marketplaces. It presents information and information security in a systems context, in which people and organizations have to use information to plan, accomplish, and govern their activities to achieve their goals. It does this in the context of the world of private business (or nonprofit) organizations, by showing how decision makers need dependable, reliable information. The most valuable skill that information security professionals can bring to their jobs is their ability to frame information security issues, concerns, problems, and solutions in business-oriented ways. Managers and leaders of organizations, whether in government and the military, business, or in the nonprofit sector, need to make decisions that balance resources, risks, and objectives. They depend upon their security professionals to translate the technical subtleties of this balancing act into issues they can decide about, and then commit the organization to improve its security posture. <a href="c01.xhtml">Chapter 1</a> starts the process of framing information security and assurance in a businesslike context.</p>&#13;
<p id="p01-para-0003"><a href="c02.xhtml">Chapter 2</a> explores the fundamental concepts of information security, often expressed by the three pillars of confidentiality, integrity, and availability. You’ll apply these concepts to a variety of situations as you learn how they are distinctly different and yet complementary; you’ll also examine how vital they are in a variety of organizational mission contexts.</p>&#13;
</section>&#13;
</section>&#13;
</div></body>
</html>