<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>Day 16: Government Structure</title>
<meta content="urn:uuid:349dc10f-f1ec-4a60-b087-1b552a5879a1" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Centre_Alignment__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span><span style=" font-size: 1.82em;">DAY 16: GOVERNMENT STRUCTURE</span></span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Let’s look to the people in charge. You may need to design different governments for different countries, or planets across your map.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Is it a single person in charge; such as a monarch or a dictator? Or is it a group of people? How do they come to office? Are they inherited roles, passed from father to son, or mother to daughter? Are government officials elected, or can they buy their way in? Is everyone able to stand for government? Can everyone vote?</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">There may be different levels of government, with each level presiding over something different. They may come to office in different ways. They may still answer to a monarch, or single person with the power to pass or reject their proposals. Or, that monarch may be in no more than a ceremonial position, without any real power.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Remember that the person who is supposed to be in charge, and appears to be in charge, isn’t always the one making the decisions.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Perhaps there is no government at all, and your people have a different way of structuring society. Maybe the privilege of the role isn’t offered first to those with wealth, connections, or intelligence. Maybe the most beautiful rise to the top, or the most athletic, or those with certain magical abilities.</span></p>
</body>
</html>