<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>Day 26: Medicine</title>
<meta content="urn:uuid:349dc10f-f1ec-4a60-b087-1b552a5879a1" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Centre_Alignment__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span><span style=" font-size: 1.82em;">DAY 26: MEDICINE </span></span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Just like technology, it’s not necessarily the case that historic worlds have lesser knowledge or advancement than we do today. They might have a different understanding of things, and knowledge far better than ours.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span class="C_Current__And__Cambria">They might practice medicine based on religion, or use natural remedies. They might use magic, or music, or chanting, or hypnosis. They might use lasers, or cloning, or 3D printing.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span class="C_Current__And__Cambria">Beyond thinking about the basis of scientific and medical knowledge, you also need to think about its place in society. Do different groups of people use different forms of medicine? And what would happen if someone fell ill in another area, where medicine was totally different?</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span class="C_Current__And__Cambria">Can everyone access medicine? Perhaps some people will rush to their local state-of-the-art hospital, while others will turn to an elder in their village. Maybe conventional medicine is incredibly expensive. Perhaps alternative therapies suddenly grow in popularity, pushing up the prices of what was once a cheap, local choice.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Who can practice medicine? Is this a world where local midwives and wise-women have to live under the radar, fearful of being found out? Is it a world where women can rise quickly through the ranks of the medical field? Where training and qualifications in medicine are subsidised by the government, and taught in universities that actively seek to recruit students from disadvantaged backgrounds?</span></p>
</body>
</html>