<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>Day 14: Education</title>
<meta content="urn:uuid:349dc10f-f1ec-4a60-b087-1b552a5879a1" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Centre_Alignment__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span><span style=" font-size: 1.82em;">DAY 14: EDUCATION</span></span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Let’s move away from the physical world, and start looking at the lives of your characters and the society in which they live.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Are children educated in formal institutions, such as schools, or are they taught at home? At what age does their education begin, and at what age does it end? Think about the stages in between; moving on to different schools, or college, or university.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">You also need to consider who is offered an education, and what kind of education is offered to who. Is education equally accessible by rich and poor, girls and boys, in rural or urban communities? Is it open to every religion, culture, race, species? Perhaps the schools are separated by some of these things, and maybe different educations, and different standards of education, are taught to each demographic.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Are children educated to give them the best chance in life, to offer them the opportunity for social mobility, or are they simply prepared for the labour market, according to their social class?</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Think about the curriculum. Which lessons are taught? Is the curriculum the same across the whole world, or does it differ by area or by individual school? Perhaps there are subjects that are forbidden, and books that are no longer allowed in schools. How has this affected education, and the lives of the younger generations? Maybe these forbidden lessons are still taught at home, or in underground schools.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Is education compulsory? What is the punishment for not attending school, and is it given to the child, the parent, or both? What is the punishment for learning something you shouldn’t be learning?</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Is education free? If it is, think about how it is funded. If not, think about who can afford it, and what happens to those who can’t. Are there scholarships to be won?</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">What happens with particularly gifted children? Are some talents revered while others are condemned? Are all children taught in the same fashion, or are their lessons tailored to the way they learn best?</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Education is the foundation on which society and the labour market is built. It’s important to think about how education has changed over time, and why, and how this shows in the differences between the generations. This gives you another avenue for conflict and tension in your stories.</span></p>
</body>
</html>