<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>Using this Guidebook</title>
<meta content="urn:uuid:349dc10f-f1ec-4a60-b087-1b552a5879a1" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Front_Matter_Body_Text__And__Centre_Alignment__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span><span style=" font-size: 1.82em;">USING THIS GUIDEBOOK</span></span></p>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Front_Matter_Body_Text__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Front_Matter_Body_Text__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">If you’re looking to build your first fictional world, and you’re not sure where to start, this is the book for you. If you’d like to deepen and expand your world, this is the book for you. If you find the idea of worldbuilding daunting, and you’ve been putting off even starting your world, this is definitely the book for you.</span></p>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Front_Matter_Body_Text__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Front_Matter_Body_Text__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">This guidebook is broken into 30 easy, manageable prompts for you to complete. If you work your way through, simply completing one prompt per day, by the end of the month, you will have a strong, solid basis to your world. From there, you can grow it more.</span></p>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Front_Matter_Body_Text__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Front_Matter_Body_Text__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">This list of worldbuilding prompts is not, by any means, exhaustive. Depending on your genre, your story, your characters, and the world you need to create for them, you may need aspects that are not covered by this workbook. Likewise, some of these prompts may not be relevant to you.</span></p>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Front_Matter_Body_Text__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Front_Matter_Body_Text__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Think of it like a garden. This book gives you the foundation to build upon. It helps you to plant the seeds, and offers you seeds you may not have considered planting yourself. But, you’ll need to cultivate it, and water it. And, you may have plants of your own that you want to include. A special tree, your favourite flower. You may like to have a pond, or a bench, or a marquee.</span></p>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Front_Matter_Body_Text__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Front_Matter_Body_Text__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">You will also need to create a safe, singular place to keep all of your worldbuilding notes, whether in hard copy or digitally. It’s surprisingly easy to get lost in your own world, and surprisingly easy to forget the details of it. This will become your worldbuilding bible. Your one-stop-shop for everything you need to know about your world. When you come to writing your story, keep these notes next to you, so that everything you need to know about your world is in easy reach.</span></p>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Front_Matter_Body_Text__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Front_Matter_Body_Text__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Above all, enjoy your worldbuilding. Enjoy exploring it, and watching it come to life around you.</span></p>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Front_Matter_Body_Text__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Front_Matter_Body_Text__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">As a simple human, this may be the closest you’ll come to performing real magic. To visualise an entire world from nothing. To pluck things from the air and make them real. To take breath on the wind and form it into something tangible. That is the most real, purest magic I know of.</span></p>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Front_Matter_Body_Text__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Front_Matter_Body_Text__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Of course, I’m being presumptuous here. You may have magical abilities beyond my comprehension. In fact, you may even be a little more than human...</span></p>
</body>
</html>