<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>Day 21: Class Divides and Social Mobility</title>
<meta content="urn:uuid:349dc10f-f1ec-4a60-b087-1b552a5879a1" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Centre_Alignment__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span><span style=" font-size: 1.82em;">DAY 21: CLASS DIVIDES AND SOCIAL MOBILITY</span></span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">What sort of class system does your society have? How big is the gap between rich and poor? Maybe the different classes and socio-economic groups live alongside one another, or perhaps they are strictly segregated. How do they view one another, and how do they treat one another?</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span class="C_Current__And__Cambria">What chances are there for social mobility? Can someone in your world marry into a higher class? Does education give people a chance to rise up through society? Does employment give them those chances? Perhaps there’s something else that can take them up through the ranks of society; something completely unique to your world. Some kind of lottery, or a tournament.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Or, of course, there might be no way at all for your characters to better their situation. Mind you, that won’t necessarily stop them from trying.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">This is a great source of conflict in your world, and particularly important in dystopian stories. Make sure you’re tying it into your culture, and the history of your world.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Prejudice can run deep for many, many generations. What started it? Where and when did it begin? How has it become so ingrained?</span></p>
</body>
</html>