<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>Day 9: Farmed Animals</title>
<meta content="urn:uuid:349dc10f-f1ec-4a60-b087-1b552a5879a1" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Centre_Alignment__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span><span style=" font-size: 1.82em;">DAY 9: FARMED ANIMALS</span></span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Which animals are domesticated and farmed? What are they farmed for? Meat? Milk? Skin? Something else? How are they farmed?</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Look back at your map and think about the kind of space particular animals need. Do they need acres of grazing land, or just a small pen? Do they need particular plants to eat, or a particular kind of landscape? Can they survive in extreme heat, cold, or other weather conditions, where other animals can’t? Can your characters also survive in that landscape?</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">All animals that are domesticated are chosen for a reason. For their uses, and for their ease of domestication. Large, naturally vicious animals may be farmed, but it’s less likely that they’ll be curling up by the kitchen fire. So, consider what makes sense in your world, and to your characters. Especially if you’re bringing in the element of mythical and fantastical animals.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Make some notes about domesticated and farmed animals. Think also, about animal welfare. Are animals used for food viewed as little more than raw materials, or are they worshipped and revered? Which animals are kept as pets, and why those animals in particular?</span></p>
</body>
</html>