<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>A Word in Info Dumping and Learning Curves</title>
<meta content="urn:uuid:349dc10f-f1ec-4a60-b087-1b552a5879a1" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Centre_Alignment__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span><span style=" font-weight: normal; font-style: normal; font-size: 1.64em; text-decoration: none !important; color: #000000;">A WORD ON INFO DUMPING AND LEARNING CURVES</span></span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-weight: normal; font-style: normal; font-size: 1.00em; text-decoration: none !important; color: #000000;">Once you have completed your worldbuilding, and you are ready to start writing your book, you need to consider how, and how much, of this information to include.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-weight: normal; font-style: normal; font-size: 1.00em; text-decoration: none !important; color: #000000;">Don’t think that you will be including every ounce of what you’ve worked on. You won’t. You shouldn’t. I know, I know, you worked hard on it, but it wasn’t wasted, even if it never makes it into your book. It helped you to understand your world, so that you can write about it in an informed, attached, and immersive way. So that you can make it all the more real for your readers.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-weight: normal; font-style: normal; font-size: 1.00em; text-decoration: none !important; color: #000000;">An ‘info dump’ is the term used for when a writer pours out information onto the page as if they are writing a history text book. It’s dry, it’s dull, and, more often than not, it’s confusing.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-weight: normal; font-style: normal; font-size: 1.00em; text-decoration: none !important; color: #000000;">I’m sure you will have heard the old adage ‘show don’t tell’. This means that you should be </span><span style=" font-weight: normal; font-style: italic; font-size: 1.00em; text-decoration: none !important; color: #000000;">showing</span><span style=" font-weight: normal; font-style: normal; font-size: 1.00em; text-decoration: none !important; color: #000000;"> your readers your worldbuilding, through action and dialogue, not simply </span><span style=" font-weight: normal; font-style: italic; font-size: 1.00em; text-decoration: none !important; color: #000000;">telling</span><span style=" font-weight: normal; font-style: normal; font-size: 1.00em; text-decoration: none !important; color: #000000;"> them via a historical lecture.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-weight: normal; font-style: normal; font-size: 1.00em; text-decoration: none !important; color: #000000;">The absolute best way to teach your readers about your world, is through action. This might be your character clashing with police, or it may simply be them navigating the world.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-weight: normal; font-style: normal; font-size: 1.00em; text-decoration: none !important; color: #000000;">Let me expand on that: if something in your world is absolutely normal, however far removed it is from our world, if you character treats it, and reacts to it, as if it is entirely regular and everyday, then you are teaching your readers about your world through action.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-weight: normal; font-style: normal; font-size: 1.00em; text-decoration: none !important; color: #000000;">Say, for example, centaurs are a common sight in your world. If your character treats them with no surprise at all, talking to them as if they are another human, then your readers learn that centaurs and humans live alongside one another equally. Or, perhaps your character ridicules, or bullies the centaurs. Or they treat them with respect, or fear. This is what you are teaching your readers about what is the norm in your world. Through action. This is the ideal way to show your worldbuilding.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-weight: normal; font-style: normal; font-size: 1.00em; text-decoration: none !important; color: #000000;">It’s not always so easy.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-weight: normal; font-style: normal; font-size: 1.00em; text-decoration: none !important; color: #000000;">And so, the next best way is through dialogue. Again, avoid huge blocks of information. This is no different to info dumping, you’re simply letting the history lecture come out of a character’s mouth. However, they can have a conversation with a friend about a historical aspect of the world, or a cultural aspect. A conversation. Not a lecture.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-weight: normal; font-style: normal; font-size: 1.00em; text-decoration: none !important; color: #000000;">Sometimes, however, you need to break the rules.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-weight: normal; font-style: normal; font-size: 1.00em; text-decoration: none !important; color: #000000;">I’m not saying that you must never simply tell your readers information. Sometimes, it’s necessary. Sometimes, it’s even the better option. But, do it with careful consideration, and do it sparingly. Rules are, certainly in creative pursuits, meant to be broken.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-weight: normal; font-style: normal; font-size: 1.00em; text-decoration: none !important; color: #000000;">If you’re concerned about whether or not you’re getting the balance right, the best way is through the use of beta readers. Beta readers read through early, pre-publication versions of books, and give honest feedback that allows the author to improve their story. If you’ve got the balance wrong, beta readers can tell you.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-weight: normal; font-style: normal; font-size: 1.00em; text-decoration: none !important; color: #000000;">Another way to learn this is through reading, reading, and reading. Take careful note of how other authors handle the dilemma. How they get the balance right, and how they get it wrong.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-weight: normal; font-style: normal; font-size: 1.00em; text-decoration: none !important; color: #000000;">The other way is simply through practice. The more you write, the more you drill down into your personal style and voice, the better you are likely to get at it.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-weight: normal; font-style: normal; font-size: 1.00em; text-decoration: none !important; color: #000000;">The way in which you give worldbuilding information to your readers also depends on the complexity of your world, and how different it is to ours.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-weight: normal; font-style: normal; font-size: 1.00em; text-decoration: none !important; color: #000000;">If you’re writing about earth, whether in the present, past, or future, there are many things your readers will already know. They understand about time, and seasons. They know the animals, the plants. They know what humans are like, and how they interact. The learning curve of your world may be quite a gentle one.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-weight: normal; font-style: normal; font-size: 1.00em; text-decoration: none !important; color: #000000;">Everything in your world that is different to our real world, adds to the learning curve of your book. Every mythical creature, every imagined technology, every drop of magic, and every jargon word makes that curve a little bit steeper.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-weight: normal; font-style: normal; font-size: 1.00em; text-decoration: none !important; color: #000000;">You want to ease your readers in. If, in chapter one, you expect them to learn everything about your world and its history, learn who the characters are, and absorb their struggles and goals, they will be exhausted by the time they get to chapter two.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-weight: normal; font-style: normal; font-size: 1.00em; text-decoration: none !important; color: #000000;">Tell them what they need to know. They don’t need 5 million years worth of military history. They may need flashes of it, but not the entire thing. Be gentle with them. Don’t make them do too much work, and don’t leave them floundering around your story loaded down with too much knowledge.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-weight: normal; font-style: normal; font-size: 1.00em; text-decoration: none !important; color: #000000;">Again, these are things that you can learn and improve on with the help of beta readers, by reading, reading, reading, and by simply practising your craft. You will find your way, I promise, but I can’t tell you how to do it, because we are all different. And our stories are different. And our voices are different.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-weight: normal; font-style: normal; font-size: 1.00em; text-decoration: none !important; color: #000000;">You might write short, 50,000 word novels, and leave a lot of the deeper worldbuilding out. You might write 130,000 word epics, with readers who expect a much more immersive experience. Practice, experiment, and you’ll find the right balance for you, your books, and your readers.</span></p>
</body>
</html>