<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>Day 27: Weaponry</title>
<meta content="urn:uuid:349dc10f-f1ec-4a60-b087-1b552a5879a1" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Centre_Alignment__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span><span style=" font-size: 1.82em;">DAY 27: WEAPONRY</span></span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">What weapons exist in your world? Perhaps your characters fight with swords and axes, attacking on horseback, or on foot. Perhaps they use guns, tanks, bombs. Maybe they use magic or laser guns.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">The weaponry in your world will be closely connected to the level of technology that you’re introducing. But, what happens if an army invades with a different level of technology? A different kind of weaponry?</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Who has access to weapons? Who has the training to wield them? Maybe there are weapons that have been banned, or weapons that can be illegally adapted.  Maybe there are weapons that can no longer be used because the knowledge or ability to use them has been lost.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Think about how weaponry links to your society. Why do they favour one weapon over another? What restrictions or features of your world have forced this choice? What skills and talents of your people?</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Also consider society’s attitudes towards weapons. Are they carried openly, or concealed? Are the military a common sight in the city, or are they rarely seen? Think about whether your police are armed, and what proportion of the general public are. Do people act with surprise when they see weapons, or are they an everyday sight?</span></p>
</body>
</html>