<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>Introduction</title>
<meta content="urn:uuid:349dc10f-f1ec-4a60-b087-1b552a5879a1" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Chapter_Title__And__Centre_Alignment__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span><span style=" font-size: 1.43em;">INTRODUCTION</span></span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Centre_Alignment__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span> </span></p>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Front_Matter_Body_Text__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">I am one of those authors who have been writing, pretty much, since they were old enough to hold a pen. I have a folder of old stories, typed up on an old typewriter, that I don’t even remember having written.</span></p>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Front_Matter_Body_Text__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Front_Matter_Body_Text__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">I was rarely seen without a book in my hand, and spent every spare hour I had, buried deep in fantastical worlds. I was lucky in that my parents encouraged it. They never told me that I was wasting my time, or to keep my head out of the clouds. They even let me read at the dinner table, eating one-handed.</span></p>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Front_Matter_Body_Text__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Front_Matter_Body_Text__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">I was also lucky to have access to a local library, and quickly worked my way through the fantasy catalogue in their children’s section. I swept my way through all of the Choose Your Own Adventure books; not only following the adventures of kids—passing into a fantasy world to fight dragons, mounted on their bicycle steeds—but I got to control the stories. I could re-read them over and over, choosing different paths each time, creating a multitude of adventures for myself.</span></p>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Front_Matter_Body_Text__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Front_Matter_Body_Text__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">My love of speculative fiction had started young. It was my dad’s job to read the bedtime stories each night, all of us huddled together to listen. He often picked books from his own collection which, almost exclusively, consisted of classic sci-fi novels. And so, as a child, my bedtime stories were written by the likes of H.G. Wells and John Wyndham. Looking back, I suspect that </span><span style=" font-style: italic; font-size: 1.00em;">The War of the Worlds</span><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;"> and </span><span style=" font-style: italic; font-size: 1.00em;">The Day of the Triffids</span><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;"> were probably inappropriate choices for children about to go to sleep, but it must have caught my imagination. I will forever thank my dad for introducing me to such tales.</span></p>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Front_Matter_Body_Text__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Front_Matter_Body_Text__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">At the age of 16 I finally picked up the Chronicles of Narnia books, reading all seven of them in just five days. It was then that my Narnia obsession began, and it has never waned.</span></p>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Front_Matter_Body_Text__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Front_Matter_Body_Text__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Before starting at university, I worked in an antique auction house. Every wardrobe that came through the saleroom, I would check in the back of it for Narnia. It reached the point that the staff would come and inform me each time they took receipt of one!</span></p>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Front_Matter_Body_Text__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Front_Matter_Body_Text__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">When they announced the latest film adaptations, I scoured the internet daily for news. I saw each of them on their day of release, going to the cinema alone for an uninterrupted experience. A pure absorption of them. I can still name the four actors who portrayed the Pevensie children, their names branded into my memory. Yes, the woman who can’t even remember her own phone number!</span></p>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Front_Matter_Body_Text__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Front_Matter_Body_Text__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">One of my most treasured possessions is an old wardrobe. I bought it from a second-hand furniture shop for just £20. It has moved house with us several times, and has practically fallen apart, with my husband tasked with fixing it back together. Carved into its door is a beautiful rendering of a ship, in full sail, riding the sea. And the serpentine hinges on it are like sea monsters. It is beautiful, and largely useless. It isn’t deep enough to hold a standard coat hanger on its rail, and the mirror on the back of the door is so mottled and degraded it hardly reflects anything at all. In fact, it has rarely ever been used as an actual wardrobe, and currently holds my increasingly out of control to-be-read pile.</span></p>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Front_Matter_Body_Text__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Front_Matter_Body_Text__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">But, because it looks like it may have once stood in the captain’s quarters on board the Dawntreader, I will never part with it.</span></p>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Front_Matter_Body_Text__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Front_Matter_Body_Text__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">And, over the years, I have collected other bits and pieces that remind me of Narnia. Including film props, and a good collection of behind-the-scenes and the-making-of books. My obsession is complete, and incurable. All that is left is to find a way to Narnia myself. I’m still looking, and I won’t give up.</span></p>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Front_Matter_Body_Text__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Front_Matter_Body_Text__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Despite this, I did stray from my love of fantasy. At university I studied Drama and Creative Writing, and wandered away from magic and fantastical worlds. I can’t say why, it just happened. Perhaps I felt pressure to finally grow up. Perhaps my university course pushed me towards literary fiction. Perhaps I simply needed a break from it for a while. I don’t know.</span></p>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Front_Matter_Body_Text__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Front_Matter_Body_Text__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">After university, as I began to navigate the confusing and cynical world of adulthood, I barely read anything at all. For a long time, I hardly managed a handful of books a year. During this time, I read my first ever Stephen King book. It was, interestingly enough, </span><span style=" font-style: italic; font-size: 1.00em;">On Writing</span><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;"> that I picked up first, and I finished it in just a few days. And so, I was brought back to literature with a renewed desire to read, as well as to write.</span></p>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Front_Matter_Body_Text__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Front_Matter_Body_Text__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Although I’ve been writing since I was very young, it was never my ambition to make a career from it. I wanted to act. I wanted to be on stage. My whole childhood was filled with drama lessons, singing lessons, lessons in several different forms of dance. I was always performing; music concerts, amateur dramatics, school plays. If there was a spotlight, I was in it.</span></p>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Front_Matter_Body_Text__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Front_Matter_Body_Text__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">While I was at university, studying Drama, I discovered that I wasn’t enjoying it as much as I’d expected to. I had a long heart-to-heart with myself, finally accepting that the ambition I’d had all of my life, my singular goal, simply wasn’t what I wanted anymore. And it was difficult to let go of. This vision had shaped my entire life, my entire personality, and I had nothing to replace it with.</span></p>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Front_Matter_Body_Text__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Front_Matter_Body_Text__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">But, I couldn’t pretend to myself anymore. And, as I continued with my degree, I came to the conclusion that I didn’t want to be onstage, blinking into the spotlight, speaking someone else’s words. What I wanted was to sit in the back of a darkened auditorium, watching other people perform my words. I wanted to write.</span></p>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Front_Matter_Body_Text__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Front_Matter_Body_Text__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Even with this revelation, I still didn’t imagine myself making writing into any kind of a career. The first Kindle wouldn’t come on the market for another six years. The publishing landscape was a very different one to what it is today. Becoming a published author was a pipe-dream. One that seemed to rely far more on luck than any kind of talent. A who-you-know rather than a what-you-know industry. And for a young woman barely into her twenties, and still reeling from losing the footing of the one constant she’d had in her life, it all seemed like an impossibility.</span></p>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Front_Matter_Body_Text__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Front_Matter_Body_Text__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">As part of my Creative Writing class, our tutor asked us to write a personal introduction to an imaginary book about ourselves. Much like this introduction you’re reading right now. The difference being, in that imagined introduction, I wrote “I can’t imagine writing ever being anything more than a hobby for me.” When I wrote that, I wouldn’t have believed I’d ever be writing one for real.</span></p>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Front_Matter_Body_Text__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Front_Matter_Body_Text__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">When our assignments were returned, my tutor had highlighted that sentence, responding with the note “That would be a shame.” That single comment began a shift in mindset which, over the following years, led me to this moment right now. And this book, through all those that have come before it.</span></p>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Front_Matter_Body_Text__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Front_Matter_Body_Text__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Inspiration tends to come from the most unexpected sources, at the most unexpected of moments.</span></p>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Front_Matter_Body_Text__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Front_Matter_Body_Text__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">And I’m sure that my tutor has no idea of the impact she had. Of the wheels she set into motion. Of the future she helped to craft. She dropped a small pebble into a pool, and its ripples are still radiating outwards.</span></p>
</body>
</html>