<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>Day 18: Family Groups</title>
<meta content="urn:uuid:349dc10f-f1ec-4a60-b087-1b552a5879a1" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Centre_Alignment__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span><span style=" font-size: 1.82em;">DAY 18: FAMILY GROUPS</span></span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">How are family groups organised in your world? Do they live together for life, with several generations living in one house, or in adjoining houses? Or do they spread far and wide once they come of age?</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Think about everyone’s roles in the family, and whether they are mostly matriarchal, patriarchal, or jointly run. Do the older family members have the final say, or is it survival of the fittest?</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">What part does the institution of family play in your world? Perhaps families are viewed as sacred, and of higher importance than anything else, or maybe families are fractured, and have very few ties to one another. And how do these things differ between the different social groups in your world?</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Do children stay with their parents, to be raised into adulthood? Maybe they’re sent away at a young age, only returning home once they are independent. Perhaps parents have no more impact in their lives than simply conceiving and birthing them.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Consider the culture in your world, and how it has led to the way families live. Also, how this has changed over time? Perhaps the older generations have a very different view of family then the younger ones. What happens when families subvert the commonly held ideals?</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Are there rules on who can marry who? Are couples monogamous? Do they come together through love, convenience, or simply for the continuation of their species?</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">What happens in your world when families break apart? Think about deaths, marriages, divorce, and re-marriages. Consider step-siblings, half-siblings.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">How much influence does the family have? Maybe the law of the family is more important than the law of the land. Perhaps crimes are forgiven if family honour was at stake.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Family groupings have a huge impact on your characters. And, therefore, on the wider society. They often stand as a person’s first lessons in socialisation, gender roles, norms, values, morality. What happens if your character doesn’t come from a standard family group? What happens if they reject it?</span></p>
</body>
</html>