<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>Worldbuilding Basics</title>
<meta content="urn:uuid:349dc10f-f1ec-4a60-b087-1b552a5879a1" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="P_CSP_-_Chapter_Title__And__Centre_Alignment__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span><span style=" font-size: 1.43em;">WORLDBUILDING BASICS</span></span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Centre_Alignment__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span> </span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-style: normal; font-size: 1.00em;">While fantasy and science-fiction authors may be doing the heavy lifting when creating their fictional worlds, worldbuilding exists in, pretty much, every genre. To a certain extent.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-style: normal; font-size: 1.00em;">Whether it’s the creation of an imaginary cafe in a real town, or imagining an alternative outcome to an event from history, any book, of any kind, can involve worldbuilding. At the fantasy, sci-fi, and horror end of the scale, the worldbuilding-heavyweights, it may mean the creation of a magic system, or monsters, to slot alongside the real world. Or it may mean building an entirely new world with new species and cultures, right up to an entire universe of planets.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-style: normal; font-size: 1.00em;">It can become quite the epic task!</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-style: normal; font-size: 1.00em;">Now, I don’t know about you, but I tend to get easily overwhelmed by epic tasks. That’s why I’m still working up to de-cluttering my house. I just look at the job as a whole, can’t untangle where to actually start, and I end up doing nothing at all.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-style: normal; font-size: 1.00em;">As much as I understand the usefulness and the importance of breaking things down into workable chunks, into simple steps, the ability and method for doing this very often escapes me. Unlike many other people, I can see the wood very clearly. It’s the trees I have trouble with.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-style: normal; font-size: 1.00em;">And this is what this workbook is designed to do. It breaks the task of building a fully fictional world into sizeable chunks. 30 of them (with a bonus one at the end). If you simply complete one task per day, by the end of the month, you will have a whole world to begin writing in, or to continue building into finer detail.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-style: normal; font-size: 1.00em;">One task a day. That’s not difficult or scary, is it?</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-style: normal; font-size: 1.00em;">Worldbuilding doesn’t need to be difficult, or complicated. It doesn’t need to take forever, or be an excuse for never actually writing the book. It doesn’t need to be overwhelming or intimidating. At the other end of the scale, it shouldn’t be something that you haphazardly bolt on in a last-minute panic.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-style: normal; font-size: 1.00em;">As you’ll discover through this book, worldbuilding should be tightly integrated with your plot and your characters. Your characters, and their goals, their struggles, their journey, that is the reason your readers show up. That’s the reason they keep reading. You can have the most amazing world, but if you don’t populate it with compelling, sympathetic, and relatable characters, readers will simply stop turning the pages. Likewise, if you write amazing characters, and put them into a flat, paper world, your readers won’t want to walk along with them, or explore with them.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-style: normal; font-size: 1.00em;">Just as you want your readers to believe in your characters, you want them to believe in your world, too.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-style: normal; font-size: 1.00em;">Let them smell the salt on the breeze, hear the buzzing of the insects. Let them feel the heat of the burning buildings, and feel the oppression of the government. Let them walk every single step with your characters. Invite them in. And invite them to stay. Whether they want to set up home there, or fight to change it.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-style: normal; font-size: 1.00em;">Your worldbuilding is equally as important as your story and characters. Give your characters somewhere real to live, and give your readers somewhere real to visit. You simply can’t separate these things out if you want to write the best book that you can.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-style: normal; font-size: 1.00em;">So, what are you waiting for? Let’s get started with the basics of worldbuilding.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-weight: normal; font-size: 1.27em;">DIFFERENT TYPES OF WORLDBUILDING</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">There are a few different ways to approach worldbuilding, and which you choose, will depend on your goals, your story, and your genre.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-weight: bold; font-size: 1.00em;">Building a whole new fictional world:</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">This is mostly used for writing fantasy and science fiction, and involves creating an entirely fictional world from scratch. Somewhere that does not, and never has, existed. It may have similarities to our world, and it may have huge differences. Think along the lines of second-world fantasies penned by the likes of J.R.R. Tolkien or C.S. Lewis.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-weight: bold; font-size: 1.00em;">A real place with an alternative past or future:</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">This may be taking a real existing place, London, for example, and giving it an alternative or altered history. Imagine if the Great Fire of London had actually been started by dragons. How would that change the world today? Or it may be taking the real-world place, and throwing it into your imagined future. This is very common in dystopia, imagining an unpleasant future for our world.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">When using this style of worldbuilding, your map is usually, largely, already done for you. There is likely to be some changes, such as missing landmarks, or different names for places. The extent of the changes would entirely depend on your story, and how different you have imagined the past or future of this place.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-weight: bold; font-size: 1.00em;">A real place with a parallel fictional world:</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">The other way is to set your story in a real place, and have a fictional world created alongside it, usually invisible or hidden from the general public. Such as in Neil Gaiman’s Neverwhere, or Harry Potter, or Hellboy. The fictional side of the world may be tightly integrated with the real world, or it may be quite separate. This would depend, again, on your story.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Whichever kind of world you’re building, your objective is still the same: to create a believable world that your readers can really imagine walking around in.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-weight: normal; font-style: normal; font-size: 1.27em;">MAP MAKING</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">One of my favourite parts of worldbuilding is making the map. You don’t need to be an amazing artist; a child-like scrawl on the back of an envelope is good enough, as long as it makes sense to you so that you don’t end up getting lost in your own world. Which, believe me, is surprisingly easy.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Imagine your characters are travelling from A to B. If, in one chapter, B lies west of A, and then, suddenly, it’s south, your readers will notice. Or if B is a coastal town one minute, and a village in the mountains the next, your readers will notice, and it will drag them out of your story. Plus, they will love to call you up on it. They’ll email you. They’ll message you on social media. And they’ll write it in their reviews.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">As an author, your job is to keep them in the story. To keep them believing that it’s real. To blur out their real world, their real life, and construct a new one for them, for as long as they’re reading your book. Glaring inaccuracies will pluck them out of your world. Inaccuracies break the illusion, and remind them that they are simply reading a story. That they’re not a hero fighting against a terrible foe. It pulls them back to their own cold, harsh, boring reality. And no one wants that!</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">And so, at the writing stage, your world map is for you. If you’re not confident in your artistic abilities, there are plenty of artists who can create a stunning map to go into the front of your book. At this stage, the map is only for your eyes. Build it out of Lego, build it on Minecraft, mould it from clay, or cake, or whatever. As long as it’s useful to you (and you’re not tempted to eat it!)</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">And don’t be tempted to simply draw a map and then randomly scatter towns across it. That doesn’t happen, it’s not believable. Towns are founded in specific places for specific reasons. The main reason being, of course, survival.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">So, imagine you’re choosing a place to establish a town. What do you need? What considerations do you need to make?</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-weight: bold; font-size: 1.00em;">Fresh water source:</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">The most important and first consideration. Have you ever noticed how many major cities have a river flowing through them?</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-weight: bold; font-size: 1.00em;">Varied food source:</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Man cannot live by bread alone. Or cake, sadly. Their food source needs to be varied enough to keep them healthy.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-weight: bold; font-size: 1.00em;">Natural resources:</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">They need enough resources to be able to build their homes, and the things they need. They can also use these resources for trade.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-weight: bold; font-size: 1.00em;">Appropriate land for crops/animals:</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">The landscape they choose to settle in will hugely impact the kind of food and animals they farm.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-weight: bold; font-size: 1.00em;">Access and security:</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Can they get in and out of their settlement easily while still keeping it protected from intruders?</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-weight: bold; font-size: 1.00em;">Trade route:</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Can traders visit their settlement? Is it on a major trade route, or will they have to rely on people making a special trip?</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-weight: bold; font-size: 1.00em;">Predators:</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">What lives in the woods? Or the mountains? How do they protect themselves against it?</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">People, by and large, will choose the easiest option for their home, unless the benefits outweigh the dangers or struggles. For example, you might consider it foolish to establish a town in the middle of a dragon breeding ground. But what if just one dragon scale (which could be naturally shed) would sell for a price that could feed a family for three months. Then, it may well be worth it.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-weight: normal; font-style: normal; font-size: 1.27em;">NAMING PLACES</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">There are several different ways to name the places on your map. Remember that it’s not just towns and cities you need to name. Depending on how big your map is, you might be naming mountain ranges, rivers, forests, counties, countries, oceans, continents, or even planets.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Just like places on your map aren’t randomly placed, neither are they randomly named. They might be named after their founder, or the landscape, or the natural resources, the wildlife, the river or mountain they’re close to. They might be named after a local legend; your place names can actually conjure up stories of their own.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Of course, you can backward engineer these things. You can find the name for a place, and then create the reason it was named that. Perhaps no one remembers. Perhaps it doesn’t matter to you, or your characters, or your story. As I’ll discuss in the next section, you don’t need a full and complete history for everything.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">There are so many online naming generators. Simply do a search, and you’ll find countless. I have two that I favour:</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<ul style="margin-top:0;margin-bottom:0;">
<li class="P_ListItem"><p class="P_ListParagraph"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">squid.org/rpg-random-generator</span></p>
</li>
<li class="P_ListItem"><p class="P_ListParagraph"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">seventhsanctum.com</span></p>
</li>
</ul>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-weight: normal; font-style: normal; font-size: 1.27em;">HISTORY</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Your current world is a product of everything that ever happened there, even if no one in your world still remembers. It’s your job, as the writer, to know. To remember what they can’t.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">I’m not saying that you need to plot out 5 million years’ worth of history. Unless you’re into that. Some people are. But you definitely need to know enough to understand why things are the way they are. To know enough to effectively create the world, its culture, and values.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">As people, we act according to our culture. And each culture is different. And there are variations in that culture. The things we value. The things we see as rude, or polite, or unnecessary. The things we want, the things we avoid. Religion. Festivals. The way we treat our elderly. The way we treat children. The kind of food we eat, and the way in which we eat it. The kind of jobs we do. The differences between rich and poor. The differences between high culture and low culture.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">And these things change over time. Invading cultures. Migrating cultures. Important events. A war, or a natural disaster can hugely change a place’s culture. Changing what’s important to them. Changing the way they live their lives.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">And you need to remember that every time something changes, it affects everything else.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">There are different levels at which an event can occur.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-weight: bold; font-size: 1.00em;">International events:</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Something that affects the entire world. Like climate change, population explosion, the sun dying, zombie apocalypse, etc</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-weight: bold; font-size: 1.00em;">National events:</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Something that affects the country or large area. Like an economic crash, natural disasters, death of a monarch, etc.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-weight: bold; font-size: 1.00em;">Local events:</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Something that affects a town or community. Harvest failure, flood, local elections, introduction of a new predator, a new trade deal, etc.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-weight: bold; font-size: 1.00em;">Individual events:</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Something that affects one person or family. Bereavement, loss of employment, loss of home, births, marriages, a lottery win, etc.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">It’s obvious how an international event affects everything else. I’m sure a worldwide zombie outbreak would affect you and your family. But what about the other way round?</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">So, imagine a family preparing for a wedding. They order a whole load of wine from the next village. That gives the farmer enough money to finally live out his dream of buying a boat and exploring the seas. When the winter rains come, the lack of the vineyard on the hillside causes a landslip which demolishes the mining town below, which leads to a shortage of minerals, which leads to a shortage of coins, which results in an economic crash.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">This is, of course, a somewhat extreme example, but it’s an important thing to bear in mind. Think about the butterfly effect, and the ripples you might be sending out.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Imagine your world as a pool. Every event, ever construct, every thing you change or create, is like dropping a pebble into the water. Sometimes, the ripples last a few minutes. Sometimes, a few years. Spreading wider. Affecting more people. Sometimes, those ripples last for centuries.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-weight: normal; font-style: normal; font-size: 1.27em;">HOW YOUR WORLD AFFECTS CHARACTER AND STORY</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">You can also use your worldbuilding to create conflict. Remember that conflict is created when your protagonist’s goal is interrupted, or opposed, and you can use your world to do that.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Perhaps the most obvious example is if the protagonist’s goal requires them to break the law. But you can use other things too: limitations of magic, social norms and expectations, gender roles. The landscape itself can become a physical barrier, or the weather, or a lack of resources.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">And you can use all of this in your worldbuilding to raise the stakes. To increase the tension.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Because your world doesn’t exist separately from the people who live in it, and you should create it with those people in mind. They will have opinions about everything. Beliefs, hopes, grievances. Things they love, things they hate. Things they want to change. Things they fight to change.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">And these things will differ based on all of their nuances: gender, age, class, religion, etc. So their opinions will be different to the person stood next to them. They may even directly oppose one another. Conflict.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">You have to remember that everything comes back to character. You have to remember that you aren’t writing a story about a world that happens to have people living in it. You are writing a story about people who happen to live in a particular world.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Worldbuilding. Story. Character. None of these is independent from the others.</span></p>
</body>
</html>