<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>Day 11: Climate and Seasons</title>
<meta content="urn:uuid:349dc10f-f1ec-4a60-b087-1b552a5879a1" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Centre_Alignment__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span><span style=" font-size: 1.82em;">DAY 11: CLIMATE AND SEASONS</span></span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">The size of your map will determine how much variation you’ll be building into climate and seasons. If you’re creating several planets, they may all have individual seasons, and climates, and climates within those climates. Remember that there are microclimates, and localised weather phenomena.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Think about the map that you’ve laid out. If it’s very sandy, you’re likely to have a hot, dry climate with low rainfall. If it’s lush or boggy, your climate will be damp and wet, with a much higher rainfall. Do they have extreme weather conditions, or is it generally temperate and benign?</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">How is the climate created and controlled? Is it due to a slight tilt in the planet’s axis, causing a difference between the seasons, or is it controlled magically, or by the six moons that orbit the planet? It doesn’t need to be the same as earth, but it does need to make sense in your world.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Also think about the effect your climate has on the flora and fauna, and on your characters. It will affect what they can grow, what they eat, and when. It will affect the animals they have, and how they build their houses, and what they build with. It will affect the kind of jobs they have, how their day is set out, when their festivals and days of rest are. Right down to affecting their mood.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">The climate may have changed over time. It may still be changing. What has caused this? Is it for better, or worse, and is there a way to stop or reverse it?</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Do they have beliefs and superstitions about the weather? Little sayings and old wives’ tales? Can they predict the weather? How? And how does that affect their lives?</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Write down some notes about the climate and seasons in different parts of your world. And remember the pool; you’re dropping another pebble in to watch the ripples. Think about all of the things that are affected by the weather, and think about all of the things that the weather is affected by.</span></p>
</body>
</html>