<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>Day 22: Religious and Spiritual Belief Structure</title>
<meta content="urn:uuid:349dc10f-f1ec-4a60-b087-1b552a5879a1" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Centre_Alignment__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span><span style=" font-size: 1.55em;">DAY 22: RELIGIOUS AND SPIRITUAL BELIEF STRUCTURE</span></span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">When you’re looking at religious and spiritual beliefs in your world, remember that there are probably going to be more than one, and they have probably changed over time. They’ve been replaced, pushed aside, become old-fashioned. The rites and rituals have changed, parts may have been forgotten, or misinterpreted, or purposefully changed to reflect a changing society, or to fit the agenda of those in charge.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">There may be conflict between different religions; causing wars, genocide, changing the government, the laws, and causing huge shockwaves in society. Or, they may rattle alongside one another quite happily, borrowing from one another from time to time.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Creating religions can be a really fun part of worldbuilding; giving you the opportunity to imagine deities, creation stories, festivals, holidays, rites and rituals. You can write songs, poetry, chants, entire scriptures, if you choose.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Think carefully about the day-to-day impact your religion has on your characters; both the believers and the non-believers. Perhaps the calendar revolves around the festivals, perhaps the working week, or the school terms. What impact do the rules and commandments of your religion have? Are they enshrined in law, or are they at odds with the law?</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">How does it impact the family? Perhaps it heavily influences the educational curriculum, or the punishments dished out for crimes.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Also think about migration of your people. What happens when a new religion is introduced, when they come up against one another?</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Remember that religion as an institution is a different thing to someone being religious. Or spiritual. A person can be deeply spiritual, without adhering to the culture of one religion or another. People often pick and choose the parts of a religion that suit them, that back up their beliefs. They are often happy to ignore and sideline the bits that don’t suit them.</span></p>
</body>
</html>