<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>Day 25: Technology</title>
<meta content="urn:uuid:349dc10f-f1ec-4a60-b087-1b552a5879a1" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Centre_Alignment__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span><span style=" font-size: 1.82em;">DAY 25: TECHNOLOGY</span></span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">What is the level of technology that exists in your world? Even when you’re writing a fantasy set in a medieval-type setting, they can still have technology and knowledge that outstrips ours today. Many ancient civilisations had technology and invented things that would amaze us, and many of them had technology and knowledge that has been forgotten. Some of their achievements are still beyond our understanding.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">While they may not have electric lights and the internet, they might have something fantastical and beyond our own abilities. They might have technology run by magic, or be able to harness the power of the moon and stars. They might rely on fire, or steam, or gas, or lightning.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">You may be writing about a futuristic world, in which case, you need to invent your own technology. Look at the technological advancements of the last few generations. Look at where the interest is. Look at the trends, and try to project them to your future world. And don’t be scared about getting it wrong. You’re writing about a </span><span style=" font-style: italic; font-size: 1.00em;">possible</span><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;"> future, there’s no need to accurately predict it!</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span style=" font-size: 1.00em;">Just keep bringing it back to the single question of what makes sense in your world. And look at the impact of technology on the lives of your characters. Does it enhance their lives, or is it invasive? Is it available, accessible, and affordable for everyone? Has it replaced jobs, or changed the way people live their lives? How has it impacted different people, and groups of people, both positively and negatively?</span></p>
</body>
</html>