<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>Day 23: Magic</title>
<meta content="urn:uuid:349dc10f-f1ec-4a60-b087-1b552a5879a1" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Centre_Alignment__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span><span style=" font-size: 1.82em;">DAY 23: MAGIC</span></span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span class="C_Current__And__Cambria">This can be another really fun part of worldbuilding, but remember: with great power comes great responsibility!</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span class="C_Current__And__Cambria">The important thing to bear in mind, when you’re building a magic system, is that it has to have limitations. If there are no limitations, then your hero can solve every single problem, every barrier, every conflict with the click of their fingers. Without limitations, you kill off any chance of conflict and tension, effectively killing off your story.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span class="C_Current__And__Cambria">So, let’s look at limitations for your magic system. First, you can limit the magic itself. Don’t make your characters all powerful. Don’t give them every single ability possible. Limit what the magic allows them to do. Perhaps magic manifests differently in different people. Perhaps it is only strong in people during their teenage years. Maybe it only works when the moon is full, or on Thursdays, or when Mars is in retrograde, or whatever you decide.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span class="C_Current__And__Cambria">You can also give your magic system consequences. Maybe using magic tires people out to the point where they can barely stand, or gives them unbearable migraines. Perhaps it prematurely ages them, or removes some of their memories. It might be incredibly complicated to use, and difficult to learn; requiring years of study for even a rudimentary knowledge of it.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span class="C_Current__And__Cambria">Perhaps much of the knowledge has been lost, or needs to be translated from a long-dead language.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span class="C_Current__And__Cambria">Again, also think about the affect it has on day-to-day life. Nothing exists in isolation, and you can change your entire world by simply changing one aspect of it.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span class="C_Current__And__Cambria">Perhaps all education revolves around magic, or the laws are based on it. Maybe they use magic to grow crops, to build houses. Maybe they raise magical animals. Perhaps only certain people are allowed to learn and use magic, and maybe there are harsh punishments for using magic unlicensed.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span class="C_Current__And__Cambria">Make some notes about magic in your world, and how it fits in with the rest of society. You can also continue with the bonus lesson on building magic systems at the back of this guidebook.</span></p>
</body>
</html>