<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>Day 24: Festivals and Celebrations</title>
<meta content="urn:uuid:349dc10f-f1ec-4a60-b087-1b552a5879a1" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Centre_Alignment__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span><span style=" font-size: 1.82em;">DAY 24: FESTIVALS AND CELEBRATIONS</span></span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span class="C_Current__And__Cambria">Have a look at your world so far, and think about the reasons your people might celebrate with a festival or special holiday. Are they based on agriculture, on the calendar, the sun or moon phases? Perhaps there are religious festivals, or magical festivals. Perhaps they celebrate an important event in history.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span class="C_Current__And__Cambria">There may be celebrations based around rites of passage: comings of age, births, marriages, deaths. Celebrations will exist at a family level, and a local level, and a national level, and, even, an international level.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span class="C_Current__And__Cambria">Think about how these festivals are celebrated. Which traditions are upheld, and which have been abandoned? Consider what foods might be available, the kind of entertainment they would have, the level of technology.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span class="C_Current__And__Cambria">Does everyone get to celebrate? Does the whole of society shut down for the celebrations? Because of their job, there are likely to be those who have no choice but to continue working through the holidays. But, there may also be people who are barred from the festivities.</span></p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"> </p>
<p class="P_Normal__And__Justification__And__Spacing_After__And__Spacing_Before__And__Line_Spacing"><span class="C_Current__And__Cambria">Are there festivals that are divisive, and cause conflict? Festivals that attract protests, or that have been outlawed altogether?</span></p>
</body>
</html>